Curse: None
Lesser sunlight sensitivity: You find it harder to see in bright daylight, thick clouds and dusk and dawn usually help. -1 to attack rolls and perception checks in bright direct sunlight.
Smelly: How ever much you wash you seem to have an unpleasant smell about you, -1 to persuasion rolls. Party members and Inn keepers might ask you to sleep outside.
Hated by dogs: For some reason dogs growl and bark at you when ever they can see you, get too close and they might bite.
Silver aversion: Contact with silver objects gives you a rash, silver weapons do double damage against you.
Thin Skinned: -1 to AC.
Doesn't do critical hits.
A creature using causes them to take 2d4 psychic damage on attacks that miss.
Weapon cannot damage unaligned creatures.
When an attack hits, heals a hostile creature at random within 60ft of the attack target for the damage dealt by the attack. If they are at full hp, they still gain this benefit.
A creature using this weapon cannot benefit from the Extra Attack feature.
Damage from this weapon doesn't harm hostile creatures, it instead damages a friendly creature within 60ft, at random.
This weapon cannot be removed from it's sheath if hostile creatures are within 100ft.
When a critical hit is scored with this weapon the creature using it must make a DC 19 Charisma Saving Throw, on a fail, they are sucked into the sword for 1d4 rounds.
A creature using this weapon is vulnerable to the same type of damage it causes.
On a critical fail this weapon explodes and is destroyed, dealing 5d8 force damage to the creature holding it.
When a creature un-sheates this weapon, it becomes stuck to their hands, it can only be unstuck by the blood of a Good aligned creature coming into contact with it.
On a successful attack, the creature holding this weapon makes a DC 17 Constitution saving throw, on a fail they become blind and deaf until a spell that can reverse these effects is used on them.
Attacks with this weapon are made at disadvantage.
This weapon changes type every round, from greatsword to dagger, from dagger to rapier etc.
Damage from this weapon is halved.
This weapon cannot damage X type of creature (Fiends, Undead, Monstrosities etc)
On a critical hit, this weapon turns into a bunch of flowers that must be offered to the creature it damaged to reverse the effect.
This weapon spawns 1d12 Goblins on a critical success or failure.
This weapon can only be used in sunlight.
A creature in possession of this weapon must make a DC 18 Constitution saving throw during every long rest they take, on a fail, their attack bonus is reduced by 1 permanently, even if they change weapon, only a Wish spell can reverse this effect.
